# DataFest Indeed.com Trends
We had 48 hours to analyze this data at UCLA's annual DataFest competition in May of 2018. Using Indeed.com data, we chose to explore the seasonality trends of job clicks versus job postings.

## Content
The slides (that are limited to 2 only) are included along with the R code, which is quite messy since we had a very limited time to produce output and hence has limited comments.

## Analysis
We analyzed both by month and by week, to better understand the macro and micro relationships. So, on a macro (monthly) level, we see a cyclical trend of job postings, dipping during the New Years, and peaking in March and in September. Postings are likely high in March to reach out to new graduates and high in September for companies on the calendar year. Also, we see a biweekly trend in which jobs are most likely to be posted at the beginnings, right middle, and end of the month. There seems to be no difference among the salary brackets and month.

Unlike the job postings, however, most people are clicking on jobs at the start of the year, possible as a New Year's Resolution, so people must realize that although their hearts are in the right places, job postings are not peaking in January. During the holidays from Thanksgiving is when people have dipped their job-looking prospects. Interestingly, people are not clicking on "fantasy" jobs, since the distrubition of salary ranges remain the same.

On a micro level, we find some very funny insights. For one, job postings tend to peak in the middle of the week, suggesting that those who are supposed to be putting up the listings do so later in the week instead of earlier on, possibly suggesting that they do not enjoy doing their work. Funny enough, people are clicking on new jobs in the beginning of the week, especially on Mondays after a weekend away from work, suggesting the unfortunate age-old truth: that most people are not happy with their jobs, since people are looking for new jobs at the start of the week, and those who are supposed to list jobs do so later. As the week goes on, people settle into their jobs and dwindle down on their job clicking, yet regardless, I find the relationship between job postings and job clickings extremely fascinting on a weekly basis. Once again, there is no relationship with the salary range; one would have expected more clickings on job postings with high salaries, but that does not seem to be the case; people are tired with their work, but they are reasonable and realistic people.
